NCBI News
Incorporating The Blind Citizen (1923)

Volume 18  No. 2. Summer, 2015
Main Headline:
NCBI Shop Cork cuts the Blue Ribbon!
 
This headline and main cover picture refers to the official opening of the NCBI Retail Shop in  North main Street, Cork.
The photo caption reads: At the official opening of the Cork NCBI shop on North Main Street, L-R: Deputy Mayor of Cork, Ken O‘Flynn, Angela Brennan, NCBI Ballincollig, Patricia Kenny, Yvonne Cosgrave, Mary Ricken, Teresa O’Brien, shop manager and Denis Hurley, Munster rugby player. 


IN this Issue:
This is our regular taster panel of three small taster pictures across the cover  which refer to stories carried in this issue.

The first picture shows  two vision impaired girls taking a “selfie” on their adventure with NCBI and Camp Abilities. The caption reads: Alison and Lana taking ‘Selfies’ at Camp Abilities!

The second picture shows John Shanahan and his pilot Gary Neff resting during a cycle. John is featured in a profile article in this issue. The caption reads: Living with Sight Loss, John Shanahan tells his story!

The third picture shows a collage of two blind fundraisers from 1914, Sir Arthur Pearson, fundraiser for (R)NIB and founder of St. Dunstan’s; and William Rochfort-Wade tireless worker and campaigner for  blind people in Ireland  until his death in 1920. The NCBi Hostel for Blind women was named in his honour.

This page also carried the  logos of FaceBook, twitter and YouTube with the invitation to readers to follow us on these social media.

The bottom right section of the cover carries the NCBI Logo with  the strap-line across two lines reading Working for People with Sight Loss.

End of page.


Page 2:

Page Header:

Sight lines.

The left-hand column carries our usual taster panel and our imprint.

IN THIS ISSUE:

Page 3:
New Kids on the block
An NCBI Retail venture.

Pages 4-5:
News in Brief.

Pages 6-7:
Coping with Sight Loss — John Shanahan’s story.

Pages 8-9:
NCBI, Camp Abilities and children with vision impairment.

Pages 12-13:
All the bargains at NCBI North Main St., Cork.

Pages 14-15:
Braille Chess: Flying the flag for Ireland at Le Havre!

Pages 16-18:
“In Time’s Eye”— The blind fundraisers of 1914!

Pages 21-24:
NCBI fundraising events.


Publisher: NCBI
NCBI NEWS (Incorporating The Blind Citizen 1923) is published four times a year by: NCBI,
Whitworth Road, Drumcondra, 
Dublin 9. 
Tel: 01 830 7033   Fax: 01 8307 787
email: info at ncbi.ie  
website: www.ncbi.ie
Editor: Frank Callery, 
Mobile: 087 6724097 
email: omegapub at eircom.net
Printed by: PB Print Solutions
Tel: 353 86 2511640.

NCBI is a registered Charity,
registered in Ireland No. 26293 
Charity No. CHY 4626



SIGHT LINES — Bright Future


We recently shared a video on our Facebook page of a young boy called Daniel Daly, who attends Clogher National School in Co. Offaly. The video shows Daniel, who is vision impaired, using Braille in his classroom and using digital Braille via a device called a Braille Note. 

With the support of his parents, his school and NCBI, Daniel is combining both the traditional medium of Braille with the latest technology to ensure that he is thriving at school. As NCBI’s Stuart Lawler says in the video – the future for children like Daniel is very bright. Not only are they learning from the technology but they are able to show us a thing or two! 

NCBI has recently been involved in a couple of events for students to talk about the use of technology in the classroom, including the use of iPads by students who are blind or vision impaired. The outcome of these sessions has been really positive and with mainstream technology, such as iPads, now being accessible out of the box, the options are increasing hugely. 

Stories like Daniels are an inspiration for parents who are newer to sight loss, like the stories we publish in this issue from those attending our Early Learning Centre in Dublin. For many parents there is huge uncertainty in the early days. What is ahead for my child? What will he/she be able to achieve? The unknown is scary and can be a dark place for families. 

NCBI works with children and their families from birth, through to pre-school, school and beyond to help allay these fears and put the right supports in place. Some of the most important work we do is putting families and children in touch with each other so that they can make connections and learn from each other. This peer support is invaluable. 

Well done to Daniel and Clogher National School for their support. You can view the video at: https://youtu.be/2oiFw2ToYPw. 


In a separate dark green panel with white text we carry  the following notice:

NCBI Collection Dates

We have significantly increased the number of collections taking place around the country for NCBI. Keep an eye out for collections taking place over the coming months in Dublin, Wicklow, Kildare, Meath, Mayo, Tipperary, Sligo, Louth, Cork and Kerry. For a full list of collection dates and locations please contact NCBI Head Office on 01-8307033.

End of  page 2.


Page 3:

New Kids on the Block at NCBI Ringsend!

NCBI opened its first dedicated KIDS charity shop in Ringsend recently. It carries a fantastic selection of quality children’s clothes, shoes and toys — catering for tots to teens. And with those ‘hopefully’ brights days of summer approaching, there are great bargains to be had from its attractive racks and shelves.

Carina Merrigan is the shop manager and she told NCBI News “We are getting customers from a wide catchment now — as far away as Sandyford. There is a vibrant community in Ringsend and there has been a large influx in population over the past number of years. The shop is doing well and we are becoming better known by the day.”

All the Labels!
Callers to the NCBI charity shop next door are making good use of the Kids shop as well and it receives a lot of donations from its supporters who are sorting their donations — with the kids shop particularly in mind.  The stock is first class with all the labels from Baby Gap to NEXT and the toy shelves  are a favourite with children who call in to survey the wide range on offer. 
 
NCBI Kids shop is urgently looking for volunteers for Ringsend. If you are interested please contact Marjorie Quarton at Marjorie.quarton at ncbi.ie. Or phone Carina on 
087 1394348.

There are two pictures with this article.
The first is a collage of two pictures showing young Aoife White standing at an array of shelves filled with colourful soft toys and the second shows Aoife at a clothes rack of colourful ‘Kids’s dress tops. The caption reads: Aoife White is torn between a top and a soft toy with the choice on offer at NCBI ‘Kids’ Ringsend.

The second picture shows the shop window from the exterior. The caption reads:
The NCBI Kids shop at Ringsend displays an attractive window with a wealth of good quality children’s clothes inside. You can get a top and bottom for as little as €5! Now that’s saying a lot!

End of page.

Page 4:

News in Brief:
 This contains news items relevant to NCBI service users and staff and runs over pages four and five.

New NCBI Poster and Leaflets for Eye Clinic


NCBI has developed a new leaflet and poster for the waiting rooms of eye clinics and optometrists around the country. The leaflet helps to explain to people who may be referred to NCBI what we do and how they might benefit from our services. We hope it will ensure that people who may benefit our services find out about us as early as possible. 
(This item is illustrated by a reproduction of the leaflet and poster).

New Leaflets On Services

We have also created a new leaflet to outline all of the services we offer. This new leaflet is great for both individuals with sight loss and their family members, giving them a better understanding of how working with NCBI may benefit them. 
(This item is illustrated by a reproduction of the new leaflet).

Eircode is Coming This Summer

Eircode is the new postcode system for Ireland being launched in summer 2015. At this time each postal address will receive an Eircode which will be unique to the address.

Having a unique Eircode for every address helps to solve two significant problems associated with addressing in Ireland. The first is that over 35% of the addresses in Ireland are non-unique i.e. where a property has the same address with a least one other property. The second is that the address for any given premises can have a number of different forms.

An Eircode will be a seven character alpha-numeric code made up of two parts. The first part (a Routing Key) consists of three characters and defines a general geographic location. 

The second part (a Unique Identifier) is unique to an address and distinguishes one address from another. A typical Eircode might read A65 F4E2.

Key benefits
Eircode will bring many benefits, it will:
 	Allow delivery and service companies to accurately identify 	addresses so your deliveries get to the right location.

•		Make it quicker and easier for medical emergency services to 		locate addresses.

•		Make it easier to shop online.

How to get an Eircode
A letter will be sent to each residential and business address, notifying the occupant of the Eircode for that address. These letters will be sent out over a three-week period. Over time, the public will see an Eircode being included on mail and they may be asked for an Eircode when arranging delivery of goods and services or when shopping online.

Eircode Finder
From launch, the public are also able to access an online tool where they can either enter an address to find an Eircode or enter an Eircode to find the full address. The Eircode Finder is available on a computer, tablet or smartphone. A national and regional campaign consisting of TV, radio, digital and regional (end of page four here)

Page five:

There is also a community outreach programme, where 23 outreach champions have been appointed to help more vulnerable audiences understand the benefits and encourage uptake. The programme will utilise local events and use local community networks to communicate the messages.
For further information, please visit website www.eircode.ie

Music School Pilot Project

Peter Gorey and John Delaney, from the Insight Counselling Centre at Fighting Blindness have recently established a music school for people who are blind or vision impaired. The first course is a 12-week project involving four students with vision impairments who will be given professional tuition in their chosen instrument. The students will pay a nominal fee of €60 for the 12 weeks. 

Peter and John are also looking at starting a choir in September, again with professional tuition and organisation and a fee of €60 to cover expenses. Peter, who is himself vision impaired, plays guitar and clarinet and has had more time to dedicate to music since he retired from his full time job three years ago. 

The lessons will take place at Fighting Blindness on Ely Place in Dublin on a Saturday afternoon. For more information please contact Peter Gorey on 086 8150145. 


Phil McGauran R.I.P.  — The most patient and gentlest of people

Des Kenny writes of Phil: 
When I came to work for NCBI in November, 1986, Phil McGauran became my personal assistant, in our then offices at 10 Lower Hatch Street, Dublin 2.  She continued in this role long into our move to Whitworth Road in Drumcondra. She gave invaluable access to the bank of institutional knowledge on the past workings of the organisation. She could be said to have come from that old school in which discretion and loyalty are at the core of practiced professionalism.
 
She moved on to other work, retaining her commitment to people through her management of the Contract Telephony Service which we instituted to circumvent the embargo on recruitment to the public service and, with it, the denial of access to telephony posts in government departments for “blind telephonists”. There was more welfare work for Phil associated with this role than we imagined, but Phil was a compassionate person who absorbed the chaos in other people’s lives and distilled it with her own goodness to bring resolution to all forms of personal problems. 

Phil died age 83 years on Valentine’s day – a day significant in love which Phil had for all of us who were privileged to know her and be touched by something exceptional in how one diminutive person could be so big in her generosity to so many of us. We are the richer for having known her.

This piece is accompanied by a photo of Phil on the occasion of her retirement being presented with a bouquet by Des Kenny. The caption reads: The late Phil McGauran, at her retirement, with Des Kenny. 
End of page 5.


Pages 6 and 7:

Facing the Future


“When I felt lost, all I had to do was pick up the phone to NCBI!”


John Shanahan suffered sudden total sight loss in 2006 and when he had to turn to NCBI it dawned on him that his life was irrevocably changed. Fionnuala Murphy spoke with John recently and this is his story.

I’m talking to John Shanahan on the phone for so long that my ear starts to get hot. But what self-respecting Cork man can’t talk for Ireland? And John has a lot to tell. He’s been on a scary but enlightening journey over the last seven years, since he suddenly lost his sight in 2006. 

“I can see light in both eyes. I realised in 2006 that I couldn’t see that well so I eventually went to the GP, who sent me to the hospital. It all happened very suddenly and before long I was almost totally blind. I have optic atrophy along with a genetic condition called Lebers. My neurologist said he’s never seen it in his working life,” explained John. 

A lot of practical and emotional changes
As a father of six from Midleton, suddenly forced to put his career as a painter and decorator behind him, John had a lot of practical and emotional changes to get used to. Adjusting to sight loss is a huge emotional journey for people, who may go from being independent, employed and active, to suddenly being dependent on others for even basic needs. 

NCBI is a not-for-profit organisation which provides information, advice, support, rehabilitation services and other training designed to assist people who are living with sight loss to do so independently. Services offered by NCBI include rehabilitation training, independent living skills, mobility training, low vision solutions, IT training, guidance in choosing a range of assistive technology, employment advice and counselling. The majority of people using NCBI’s services have some level of vision and most acquire sight loss during their adult lives.

“It was very difficult to accept.”
“When the eye doctor told me about NCBI in Ballincollig it felt like a final nail in the coffin. I felt as if that was it – I was no longer capable of doing anything on my own. It was very difficult to accept. But between NCBI and Irish Guide Dogs I have completely turned my life around. There were times when I was lost and all I had to do was pick up the phone to anyone in NCBI,” stated John. 

With NCBI’s help John learned to use a long cane to get around independently. He also took part in IT training and is using a computer with the help of screen reading software, which reads aloud everything that is on the screen. With the help of scanners he can read his post. John’s guide dog Vasco is now his constant companion

Always a keen cyclist, John decided to explore tandem cycling when he lost his sight. And not one to do things by halves, he began training for the Wicklow 200.

“I cycled a lot when I was younger and I decided to give the tandem a go. It’s scary at times, especially on a descent hitting 50-60kph! But, as I joke with my pilot, at least I have a good airbag!”

John is a member of Midleton Cycling and Triathlon Club and, with his pilot Gary Neff, trains weekly. They have cycled distances of 150k on the road, with John managing 180K on the stationery bike. 

East Cork Triangle Cycle
Having benefited from the services of both NCBI and Irish Guide Dogs, John has been a loyal supporter of both charities over the years. On April 11th, he organised the first East Cork Triangle Cycle, with options ranging from 10-135k to suit adults, under 16s and families. NCBI is really grateful 

End of page six, continues on page seven)

Page seven:
to everyone who supported the East Cork Triangle, including John, his family, all the cycle participants, and John Kiely in Garvey’s SuperValu in Cobh who very kindly sponsored the event. We’re already looking forward to next year’s East Cork cycle.

“People often take for granted that someone else will raise funds. I want to make sure that someone else in my situation has access to the services they need. Without NCBI a lot of people would be facing a blank page. The biggest thing NCBI has given me is confidence to get back into life,” said John. 

For more information on NCBI visit www.ncbi.ie or phone NCBI Cork on 021 4214962. 

This article in accompanied  by two pictures. The main picture at  top of page seven shows a group of cyclists with John Shanahan and his tandem pilot Gary Neff during a break in a cycle. The caption reads: John Shanahan, left, with pilot Gary Neff taking a break from the cycle.

The second picture show a  group of cyclists about to start out on the East Cork Triangle Cycle. The caption reads: Some of the cyclists headed by John and Gary, who took part in the first ‘East Cork Triangle Cycle’, preparing for the off at Garvey’s Supervalu, Cobh. 
End of page seven.

Pages eight and nine:
A two-page article on the NCBi service users who attended the Camp Abilities adventures  this year.

Page Header: 
NCBI Support:

NCBI and Camp Abilities bring joy and learning to Children with Vision Impairment

Caroline Lane, NCBI community resource worker, Mid West, gives us the story of Camp Abilities 2015.



Camp Abilities had a new venue for 2015, all the fun and excitement was held at Cappanalea Outdoor Adventure Centre, Killorglin in Co. Kerry. Thirty campers aged between 10 and 14 years from 14 different counties attended the five-day residential camp which aims to introduce children with sight loss to new sports/physical activities and increase their independence. 

During the first two days children had the opportunity to take part in rock climbing, abseiling, raft building, canoeing and orienteering at Cappanalea. On day three, campers travelled to Castleisland for an athletics tournament and finally to Killarney for horse riding, swimming, archery, soccer, crazy golf and Judo on day four.

The closing ceremony gave the campers the opportunity to entertain their parents with their singing and dancing skills! Old friends were reunited and new friendships   formed at camp, for many children it provides the only opportunity to meet with another child with sight loss. 

2015 saw the 10th anniversary of Camp Abilities in Ireland, a phenomenon developed by Lauren Lieberman in Brockport, New York 20 years ago this year! Her mission is to empower children and teens with visual impairments to be physically active and productive members of their schools, towns, cities, and communities, as well as to improve the health and well-being of people with sensory impairments. Many of the specialists at Camp Abilities have sight loss themselves, which greatly improves the experiences of the campers. 

The Leaders in Training (LIT) programme has been developing well at camp, with six young students taking part this year. This is facilitated and organised by Paralympian athlete Nadine Lattimer who represented Ireland in the shot putt event in London 2012. The LIT students all of whom are past campers are encouraged and supported to develop their personal effectiveness and independence skills while learning how to adapt and support a child to take part in physical activities. 

The CARA adaptive physical activity centre, together with the Institute of technology Tralee and The National Learning Network are the main organisers of Camp Abilities in Ireland with support and sponsorship from NCBI and Vision Sports. More than 50 people, including 40 volunteers provide the hard work, energy and enthusiasm to make the camp a positive and active experience for all the campers. 

On the final day, parents had the opportunity to speak about the importance of the camp with many reporting the experience as the only time their child gets to take part in activities on an equal level. Claire Hennessy, mum to Patrick said “It’s not that Patrick wants to go to Camp  ( end of page eight, continues on page nine)

Page nine

Abilities, it’s that he needs to!” Campers are challenged while at camp to be more independent, caring for and storing their belongings, enhance their orientation, mobility and social skills.  


NCBI provided support to Camp Abilities, which included attendance at the organising committee meetings, providing awareness training and an environmental accessibility audit, sponsorship funding and support for volunteers, staff and campers for the duration of the camp. We also facilitated an introductory session for 13 campers on using the iPad as a learning media solution. 

We extracted the expert assistance of campers Alan Rynne, Cian O’Riordan and David Redmond to assist in providing a demonstration to campers who were new to the iPad. Many thanks to Lisa Brown, James Honour and Colette Quinlivan from NCBI. For more information go to: http://www.caraapacentre.ie/camp-abilities


There are four pictures to accompany on page nine.  The first, on the top left hand column, of two on this page, shows a close-up of two young girls wearing climbing helmets posing for a “Selfie” picture the caption reads: Taking selfies! Alison Roode and Lana McKeon. 

The second picture at the top of the right hand column shows an instructor encouraging a young girl to negotiate the terrain. The caption reads: Dineka Mason from Limerick with Volunteer Peter. 

The third picture (right hand column) shows  to children in a canoe with an instructor the caption reads: Fun at Sea. 

The forth picture at the bottom righthand side of page nine shows shows a group of children and instructors at a rock face, some of the children are climbing with a guide rope while others await their turn to ascend. The caption reads: Rock climbing adventures. 
 End of page nine.

Page 10:
Page Header: NCBI Volunteers

NCBI Volunteer Giving to Community

Long-time volunteer Pat Conroy tells of her enjoyment in being involved in the NCBI community.


I got involved with the NCBI charity shops in the early 90s, when they were just beginning. But I had been volunteering with the organisation in Kildare for a long time before that, it’s probably longer than 30 years ago now. 

When I first joined the committee the organisation was much smaller. So we used to organise a lot of social events for people with vision impairments in the area. There wasn’t much public transport so we’d drive around and collect people for the different events. We really got to know people personally. 

A strong volunteer network. 
When the charity shops started up I really didn’t know much about it but I got involved in Newbridge, which was the second shop to open in the early 90s. It was trial and error and we learned the hard way. I’m glad to say that the shop is thriving and we have a strong volunteer network. 

I notice that customers spend money very carefully these days and will consider every item. And because there are more charity shops around now, customers are also able to compare one to the other and they will shop around. 

People volunteer for different reasons – it’s a great way to have a chat and meet people and it can be a lifesaver if people are feeling lonely. The camaraderie that we volunteers have benefits the shops too as it creates a nice atmosphere for customers. The shop is bright and cheerful and it’s inviting. For the volunteers it works both ways, we are donating our time but we also get something back in the friendships we make. I enjoy talking to customers and I get to keep my independence by keeping busy. I’m also conscious of those who use NCBI’s services and the role the shops play in that. I like to help people when they’re shopping and if they’re looking for an outfit for a particular occasion we can advise on what might go nicely together. 

We are very respectful of the donations we receive. People have made a decision to donate to NCBI and we are very conscious of thanking customers and donors. 
— Pat Conroy, Volunteer.


This article is accompanied by one picture of Pat. The caption reads: Long-time NCBI Volunteer, Pat Conroy.
End of page 10.

Page 11.

VSI — 3-Year Sports and Leisure Plan!

It was goals galore as Vision Sports Ireland (VSI) launched its 3 year sports and leisure plan for blind and vision impaired people in Ireland. The launch was held at the Dublin’s Morgan Hotel on May 22nd. 

The plan kicks off with the ideal that every single vision impaired person, no matter what age, level of sight or fitness, should be able to participate, in so far as they wish and is possible, in the sports, leisure and social activities of their choice. 
To get the ball rolling a set of 10 goals are set. VSI hope to appoint a sports development and liaison officer to get out and about and develop opportunities throughout the land. Inevitably, there will be a cost so the plan is to give marketing and fund-raising a kick start.

New membership categories coupled with greater awareness should increase VSI membership four-fold. Meanwhile, to help create greater awareness a whole new PR strategy will be devised to take account of modern communication methods.
It is widely accepted that sports participation is so low among vision impaired people compared to those involved with other disability groupings. We know ageing is a key factor but VSI believes there are several other reasons. This Plan set out to hone in on existing research and, where necessary, support new research. Of course, the game would be over before it begun were it not for volunteers. Training opportunities are being planned as well as an end of season awards and recognition night.  

The competition landscape for those with vision impairment has changed dramatically over the last four decades from exclusion to inclusion. VSI outline how it will support coaches, clubs, schools and colleges, sports partnerships and national governing bodies to ensure everyone has a sporting chance.

Implementation of governance is always a hot topic. VSI are very strong in this area and plan to get even stronger. It better, because the last goal in this three year plan is that every single recommendation will be policed with regular reportage to all members!

Finally, you can’t have goals without a match of the day. VSI hope to match up with its key partner, NCBI, to build even closer relations. Indeed, VSI wish to work very closely with all like-minded organisations and groupings from within the blind/vision impairment catchment area and beyond.

This article is accompanied by the Vision Sports Ireland Logo and two pictures which each show a man being presented with an award. The combined caption reads: VSI Hall of Fame Award for Frank Cullinane above, and Jimmy Gallagher  below, presented by VSI Chairman Robert Dobbyn. (Photos — Karl Leonard.)

End of page 11.

Page 12.

Page header: 
NCBI Retail News

All the Bargains at NCBI North Main St., Cork


It was all hands on deck at the official opening of the NCBI shop at North Main Street, Cork when Deputy Mayor of Cork City, Councillor Ken O’Flynn, cut the blue ribbon. Councillor O’Flynn wished the North Main Street well and urged people to support this great initiative. 

“Charity shops are a very welcome addition to every shopping street. Very often they are filling spaces that might otherwise be left empty. North Main Street has suffered in the recession, with the loss of a number of long established businesses. So we are delighted to see that charity shops are thriving and keeping the street alive. As well as a great place to find bargains for the thrifty among us, charity shops offer great opportunities for volunteering and getting involved in your local community. And in the case, of this NCBI shop you will be directly helping people who are blind or vision impaired in Cork.”

Proceeds from the shop go directly to the supports and services provided by NCBI to almost 2,000 people with sight loss in Cork city and County. As NCBI must raise €4 out of every €10 it spends on services, its 72 charity shops around the country make a vital contribution to its fundraising efforts. 

The Cork North Main Street shop is managed by Teresa O’Brien, with the support of a core team of volunteers. According to Teresa “The work we do wouldn’t be possible without these important fundraising efforts. We’ve been offering services throughout the county of Cork, from our base in Ballincollig for many years and it’s great for donors and customers to know that their donation or money is going directly into the local community. The shop offers great bargains in second hand clothes, books, bric-a-brac, kids clothes and lots more.”

Sight loss is increasing as our population ages and demand for NCBI’s services is on the increase. The new NCBI charity shop is urgently seeking donations of your unwanted clothing and other items. Every bag is worth a great amount to the organisation.

There are three photos to accompany this article two on page 12 and the third on the top left-hand column of page 13.

Picture one shows  the cutting of the blue ribbon to officially open  the shop. The caption reads: Smiles at the official opening. L-R: Deputy Mayor of Cork, Ken O‘Flynn, Angela Brennan, NCBI Ballincollig, Patricia Kenny, Yvonne Cosgrave, Area Manager NCBI Retail, Mary Ricken, Teresa O’Brien, shop manager and Denis Hurley, Munster rugby player.

The second picture  shows a man and a woman in the shop, both are laughing to camera. The caption reads: Munster rugby’s Denis Hurley helps out in the shop with manager Teresa O’Brien.

The third picture on page 13 shows a woman customer with her back to camera making a choice at a clothes rack. The caption reads: Customer choice at North Main Street, and plenty to choose from!



End of page 12.

Page 13. 
Customer Day for NCBI Nenagh “Bookends”

NCBI’s only bookshop, ‘Bookends’ in Abbey Lane Nenagh, manages very nicely. It has been open since 2002 and was a success from the start. Of course book prices have gone down, but plenty of choice and good presentation work wonders.

The shop has had just two managers, Mary O’Sullivan for ten years and Lorraine Weldon for almost four. On Thursday May 14th, Lorraine held a ‘Customer Day,’ with a one day sale, tea, coffee and buns. 

The shop took €225 over the day. This was a great effort costing only petty cash and, of course, setting up, which Lorraine took care of most successfully. Everybody went away happy and the feedback has been excellent. Caroline Fitzgerald from the NCBI Offices in Nenagh was there and was much impressed.

Only a few of the NCBI shops feature books and they sell in some places better than others. I think much of the Nenagh success is the display of interesting books, not readily available. There are a great many customers who ask for a particular book and if we haven’t got it, we look out for it and sometimes order books for people who aren’t familiar with shopping on-line. 

The ‘customer day’ was a good example of a small scale fundraiser, costing little except, of course, work. It was well thought out and well worthwhile. 

— Marjorie Quarton.

This story is accompanied by one photo it shows two women in the Bookends shop. The caption reads: L-R: NCBI volunteer Rachel Hall with “Bookends” manager Lorraine Weldon.

End of page 13.


Page 14 and 15.

Page header:

Six Nations Braille Chess

Flying the Flag for Ireland at Le Havre

Philip Doyle reports on the recent Six Nations Braille Chess Tournament at Complexe DOJO/Echecs in Gonfreville l’Orcher, near Le Havre, France .

The Six Nations Braille Chess Tournament took place over the Easter weekend of 3 - 7 April at the Complexe DOJO/Echecs in Gonfreville l’Orcher, near Le Havre. This is a biennial friendship event hosted in turn by the participating countries: Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Due to Switzerland’s withdrawal, Ireland was asked to provide a team. Ireland had participated on three previous occasions and this year’s team, in Board Order, were: Philip Doyle, Michael Delaney, Ernie McElroy and Eamonn Casey— with guides Margaret O’Shea, Noreen Cleary and Fionnuala Ní Bhrádaigh. Fionnuala and Michael’s almost 2-year old daughter Laoise completed the party.

On reaching our destination we were met by the Organiser Cyrille Vaugeois and a colleague who drove us to the Hotel Campanile. On the evening of Friday 3rd, there was a reception in the sports complex hosted by the Mayor of Gonfreville who welcomed the teams and presented each player with a gift of some local specialities. The team captains met to discuss the scoring system which would be match points rather than board points.  The arbiter was International arbiter Benjamin Marret, dubbed “The Sheriff” on account of his badge.  

In the first of two matches on Saturday, we played France, the defending Champions, and lost heavily. I was outplayed by Adrien Hervais. Michael got into time trouble and lost to Olivier Deville. Ernie lost to Bertrand Catherine, but Eamonn spared our blushes with a draw on Board 4 against Bernard Sojka. This result placed us in joint last with Belgium, behind the Netherlands.  
Round 1 results:  Ireland-France, 0.5-3.5; Netherlands-United Kingdom, 1.5-2.5; Belgium-Germany, 0.5-3.5.  

In the afternoon we came up against the Netherlands. After my opponent, Sergio Harnandan, gifted me a Pawn in the opening, I greedily grabbed another  which got me into all sorts of trouble and in no time I was lost.  Michael and Ernie steadied the ship with creditable draws while Eamonn went down to Jan Boer.  
Round 2 results: France-Germany, 2-2; Ireland-Netherlands, 1-3; United Kingdom-Belgium, 1-3.

We played one round on Sunday against Belgium. I had another bad start, this time against Didier Dalschaert but soon gained the upper hand and when I doubled my Rooks on the seventh rank, it was inevitable that something would give and soon after I won a Pawn and eventually the game. Michael and Ernie had draws against Herman Yennen and Ava Vandekerchove — the only woman in the Tournament. Eamonn lost, but overall the result was a good one, earning us our first match point. At this stage France and Germany were neck-and-neck ahead on five match points.  
Round 3 results:  Netherlands-France, 1-3; Ireland-Belgium, 2-2; Germany-United Kingdom, 2.5-1.5. 

On the Sunday afternoon, we paid a visit to a Norman distillery where we learned the secrets of distilling cider and the famous Calvados apple brandy.  We also sampled drinks including one flavoured with whiskey. 

On Monday we played the last two rounds. First against the powerful Germans and suffered a disastrous 4-0 whitewash. By contrast, France could only draw with the UK, thus slipping a match point behind Germany. 
Round 4 results:  France-United Kingdom, 2-2; Ireland-Germany, 0-4; Netherlands-Belgium, 3-1.

In the final round Ireland played the UK. Eamonn got us off to a great start with a win against Phil Gordon. Then Ernie lost to Mark Kirkham who was having a great Tournament. Steve Hilton had me all bottled up but after he exchanged his Bishop for my Knight the game opened up and soon after I won a Pawn and the endgame.  Michael’s opponent, Les Whittle, blundered a Knight and went on to lose giving us a satisfying victory. We were elated with our win over the UK. 

Meanwhile, France dropped another match point to Belgium, while the Germans were forging ahead with another whitewash over the Netherlands.  Congratulations to Germany on their impressive win.  
Round 5 results:  Belgium-France, 2-2; Germany-Netherlands, 4-0; Ireland-United Kingdom, 3-1.  

Final scores:
Germany 9 match points.
France 7.
Netherlands 4.
Belgium 4.
United Kingdom 3.
Ireland 3.

We would like to thank the tournament organisers, the teams, and the staff at the complex who provided great food; and particularly Bernard Sojka, one of the French team, who guided us from Saint Lazare train station to our rail connection to the Airport. 

This article is accompanied by two pictures on page 15. The first, across the top of page 15, shows a group of people standing around the Irish team following  the presentation of prizes. The caption reads: ABOVE: at the presentation to the Irish team, pictured centre, L-R: in yellow top, Philip Doyle, in green top, holding child, Michael Delaney, front holding trophy, Eamonn Casey and in blue top, Ernie McElroy.

The second pictures shows two men in during a  chess match.  The caption reads: Pictured during the tournament, L-R: Marc Van Gysel, Belgium and Eamonn Casey, Ireland. Marc won this match.

End of page 15.

Page 16 - 18.

This is an extended article over three pages which tells the story of  the fundraising activities of Sir Arthur Pearson, the blind fundraiser and founder of St. Dunstan’s institution for blinded soldiers and of the NCBI connections to him 100 years ago.

Page header:

In Time’s Eye.

In the annals of blind welfare and advancement few names are held in honour more than that of Sir Arthur Pearson. Frank Callery looks back on the achievements of this blind man, one hundred years ago.

On March 20th 1914, the founder of NCBI, Alice Stanley Armitage and her niece Doris Mary Rose were stood in the vestibule of the new offices of the Royal National Institute for the Blind, at 206 Great Portland Street W. London, awaiting the arrival of King George V. and Queen Mary. Standing beside them was Arthur Pearson. The King and Queen were there to officially open the new offices and printing works and the first person presented to their Majesties was Alice Stanley Armitage. Doris Mary Rose Armitage (who would succeed her as President of NCBI in 1950) who was then 13 years of age, presented the Queen with a bouquet on behalf of the NIB.

On the previous day, the British and Foreign Blind Association (BFBA — known affectionately to the Armitage family as the ‘Ass’) which had been founded by Alice’s father, Thomas Rhodes Armitage, M.D., in 1868, had finally ceased to exist and metamorphosed into the National Institute for the Blind which would in time become       
 the RNIB. As early as 1870, the Council of the BFBA had sanctioned the renting of office accommodation at ‘not more than £15 a year’. This never occurred and the Armitage home, 33 (and later 34) Cambridge Square, remained the offices of the BFBA until after its incorporation in 1902 when it made application to the Board of Trade to be registered with limited liability. The Association subsequently moved to new premises at 206 Great Portland Street W. London. By 1907 this address was well and truly established as the focus of administration for blind matters in the UK. 

From Great Portland Street the BFBA continued to issue its voluminous Braille productions from a press which was claimed ‘to be by far the most important of its kind in the Empire’. However, this premises proved to be inadequate for its purposes and the Executive Council acquired ‘a more commodious site only a few doors away in the same street”. 

Dramatic increase 
Arthur Pearson lost his sight to glaucoma in 1913. In October of that year he joined the Council of the National Institute for the Blind. In January 1914 he was appointed treasurer. That was a propitious day for the NIB. His contribution is shown in the fact that the Institute’s gross income for the year ending December 31st., 1913, was £8,010, while its income for the year ending March 31st., 1921, was £358,174. This dramatic increase was in large part due to Pearson’s boundless enthusiasm and his organisational and fundraising abilities.  

Early in 1914 Arthur Pearson had set himself the task of raising the £30,000 necessary to equip the National Institute’s building in Great Portland Street, and to form an endowment fund for the production and reducing the cost of production of embossed books. He convinced the then Lord Mayor of London, Sir Vansittart Bowater, to open a special Mansion House Fund for this aim. Among the first donations to be acknowledged were £1,000 from Lord Northcliffe, £1,000 from Arthur Pearson himself, and £1,000 from Lord Rothermere. 

The earliest use of radio for a fund raising appeal 
Pearson had seized his chance immediately after King George opened the Institute’s buildings. He arranged a broadcast of the King’s speech through the medium of radio, with the help of the Marconi Company. The King’s 1914 ‘Message to the ships of the world’ appeal was the earliest use of radio for a fund raising appeal. It was sent out 

End of page 16, continues on page 17) 

by wireless from Poldhu (Marconi’s radio station on the Lizard, Cornwall) and Cape Cod to every vessel on the oceans of the world equipped with a Marconi installation. It was forwarded from London by Pearson, to the high-powered station at Poldhu and thence to the ships which had a receiving range of 1,500 miles from Poldhu (the message was republished by the ships in their Ocean Newspaper). It asked the captains of all ships to make a collection on board and to re-transmit the message to other ships, thus involving all ships on the oceans of the world in the appeal — Messrs. Rothchild gave £300 to the fund on this occasion. 

Novelty and dramatic originality 
In addition to the direct result of this appeal, its novelty and dramatic originality gained columns of newspaper publicity. Filson Young wrote: “Wireless telegraphy is the most modern of man’s powers; charity, I suppose, the most ancient of his virtues. Mr. Arthur Pearson who thought of this dramatic way of helping his fund for providing books for the blind; was called “the hustler” in the days before he, too, entered the dark kingdom. It is his old touch, the grand manner asserting itself once again.”

By the time war had broken out in August, 1914, Arthur Pearson had succeeded in raising nearly £60,000. He also persuaded the Carnegie Trust to make large grants to the book funds, and the number of publications in Braille increased each year despite all the difficulties of war time. Under his stewardship, the NIB opened (1916) a home for blind babies at Chorley Wood — “Sunshine House,” in which both Queen Mary and Queen Alexandra took an active personal interest in its welfare. In 1921 the Institute opened a college for blind girls, and vastly improved the buildings of the school for blind boys at Worcester. At this time the Institute had 7,000 blind men on its registers. 

Over one million pounds 
At the outbreak of war, at the request of the Prince of Wales, Arthur Pearson transferred his activity and his enthusiasm for collecting money ‘for a good cause’ to the Prince of Wales’s Fund. He was given offices in St. James’s Palace and could call on the resources of the State. Tens of thousands of postcards and thousands of telegrams were dispatched from his office. In six months Arthur  Pearson succeeded in collecting over one million pounds (nearly £30 million in today’s value).

Beginning of the great work 
Very shortly Arthur Pearson found himself working again solely for blind people. At the very end of 1914 Pearson opened a hostel for blinded soldiers on the Bayswater Road, London. With the increase in blinded soldiers returning from the war, he devised a plan to give these men a new start in life. The hostel in the Bayswater Road which housed four blinded soldiers was the beginning of the great work of ‘teaching ex-soldiers how to be blind and at the same time how to be independent and useful’. From 1915 to the end of his life, this was his absorbing preoccupation.  

On March 26th., 1915, the hostel was moved from the Bayswater Road to St. Dunstan’s in Regent’s Park. The house belonged to Mr. Otto Kahn, the New York banker, and it was placed at Arthur Pearson’s disposal, absolutely free of charge. St. Dunstan’s had all the advantages of a large country house with a wonderful garden, though it was within a couple of miles of Piccadilly Circus. When the move was made, Arthur Pearson had sixteen men to care for. Before the end of the war, there were seventeen hundred names on his books. 

(end of page 18 continued on page 18)

St. Dunstan’s was to become the engine for blindness rehabilitation and training across the world. Eight trades and occupations were taught at St. Dunstan’s: massage, shorthand writing, telephone operating, poultry farming, carpentry, mat-making, boot-repairing and basket-making. Netting in many forms was also taught, but Pearson never regarded this as more than a paying hobby. Every man was taught to read Braille. At St. Dunstan’s, blind men learned in six-to-nine months what it took four to five years to teach them in other institutions.

But all this had to be paid for and Arthur Pearson, through his fundraising appeals, did just that. His appeals for the National Institute and particularly for St. Dunstan’s were made systematically and with ingenuity, throughout the country. Local blind institutions found that Arthur Pearson, with his more dramatic methods, was collecting money that might have gone to them. They considered this unfair and undesirable, and so he devised a plan by which, in many instances, the collection of funds was left to the local Institutions, and allocations were made to them, sufficient for them to carry on their work satisfactorily. In most cases they benefited financially from this new arrangement. The NIB now has fifteen branches, covering the whole of England and Wales, and one in Dublin run by William Rochfort-Wade, whose family were to be long and centrally associated with NCBI. 

Progressive rehabilitation 
In recognition of his work at St. Dunstan’s, Arthur Pearson was created a baronet in 1916, and he received the G.B.E. in 1917. But tragedy waited. Early on the morning of December 9th., 1921, while bathing in his enamelled bath, he must have slipped forward, striking his head on the tap. The blow stunned him. He fell face forward into the water and died from asphyxia.

A related aspect of this story is continued on a separate dark green panel with white text on the right hand column of page 18. It reads:

In Time’s Eye — 1914

Three days before the King’s Speech at NIB, Mr. Wardle, M.P. raised “the condition of the blind” in a House of Commons debate. Arising from this, On May 17th. 1914 the Government appointed the “Departmental Committee on the Welfare of the Blind”, under the Chairmanship of W. Hayes Fisher, M.P. 
Three days later Arthur Pearson, together with Ben Purse, the leader of the National League of the Blind, were added to the committee. Because of the war, the committee did not report until 20th July 1917. Arthur Pearson of course gave evidence to the Committee on St. Dunstan’s, and his man in Dublin, William Rochfort-Wade, a blind solicitor, gave evidence on “the condition of the blind in Ireland”. 

 Through Pearson’s evidence and canvassing, the final report recommended that blinded soldiers receive pensions via Royal Warrant. Blinded Officers: £175 a year upwards, according to rank, with the possibility of an additional £78 per year, where the constant care of another is necessary. Blinded N.C.O.s and men: 1. Total loss of sight (a) 27s. 6d. to 42s. 6d. (b) loss of vision of one eye: 13s. 9d. to 21s. 3d. 

Rochfort-Wade’s evidence clashed with that of Sir Thomas Stafford, the Irish representative, who held the official line. Rochfort-Wade had undertaken a study of blindness in Ireland and produced his précis of statistics in evidence. He became an influential advocate for blind people in Ireland, being Secretary to the Hibernian Blind Society (66 Lr. Gardiner St., Dublin) and the NIB representative in Ireland, with offices at 10  Westmoreland Street, Dublin.  He was a main fundraiser for the Pearson scheme of Fundraising for the NIB and St. Dunstan’s, and through this, aided smaller societies and institutions. He died at his home, Belcamp-Hutchinson, Raheny, Dublin, on August 8th., 1920 and is buried in Raheny C.O.I. Cemetery. There is a plaque in the adjoining church erected by “The Blind of Ireland to whose interests he unselfishly devoted himself”. The NCBI Rochfort-Wade Hostel for Blind Women was named in his honour. His daughter, Molly, was a founding member of NCBI and later one of its Vice-Presidents.

This article is accompanied by four photos. On page 16 we carry photos of Alice Stanly Armitage and Doris Rose Armitage set into the text where they are mentioned. On the top right of page 17 we carry a photo of Sir Arthur Pearson and on the green panel on page 18 we carry a photo of William Rochfort-Wade.

End of page 18.

Page 19.

NCBI’s Early Learning Centre — The Parents’ View
Parents of some of the children who attend NCBI’s Early Learning Centre give us some insight into their children and their involvement at the centre.


Denise Montgomery, Robert’s Mum
“Robert is now four and a half. When he was 7-days-old he contracted bacterial meningitis. There was always a question over his sight and unfortunately we were only home from hospital a few days when he had a brain haemorrhage. After that the neuro-surgeon told us he had a significant brain injury and because he was fighting for his life we parked the question over his vision for a while. We just wanted him to survive. 
“When he was 8 months we heard it in black and white from the ophthalmologist and it really hit us then. We were immediately put in touch with the relevant services and I can’t say anything positive enough about NCBI and the Early Learning Centre. They don’t look at Robert any differently. The staff are always there if we have any worries and then it doesn’t seem like such a worry anymore. 

“Since he started with NCBI Robert is fixing and following a lot more and he has more interest in life and what’s going on around him. He’s trying to feed himself – grabbing at the spoon and trying to find his mouth and his head control has improved a lot. 

My advice to other parents is not to take it all on your own shoulders. I thought I could handle it all myself. But it wasn’t about me, it is about Robert and what we can do to give him the best start. I would also say to be open and to pick services and supports that suit you as a family. NCBI is an invaluable support”.

Laura Ratcliffe, Tadhg’s Mum
“Tadhg has albinism. It wasn’t spotted at birth so he was about five months old when he was diagnosed. I brought my older son Ben to Vision Express for a routine eye exam and they recommended that I take Tadhg to the public health nurse as they thought he had nystagmus. We were then referred to the paediatrician and ophthalmologist. 

“Although albinism runs in both sides of our families, I didn’t know anyone with it because it was going years back. So it came as a major shock. We were devastated and we didn’t know where to go. We were worried about him – would he ride a bike or play with his friends? But we’re not worried about any of that anymore. 

“We were referred to NCBI and Tadhg started in the Early Learning Centre when he was one. 
 (This article is continued on  page 20).


Page 20.

“The first time I went to see the Early Learning Centre I was terrified. But Anna just gave him a big cuddle and went to play with him so that I could talk to Margaret and have a look around. It was a light in the dark for us. They have built his confidence tremendously and gave us the tools to help Tadhg at home. So now we keep all his cars in the green box, for example, so he knows where to find them. 

“Tadhg also goes to a mainstream pre-school and the Early Learning Centre staff went to the pre-school to help transition him in there and to meet the teachers. My worries for Tadhg have eased. He’s now ready for school, which is a big step for any child. I’m worried about how he’ll fit in and what other kids will ask him. But I’m not worried about Tadhg succeeding in life, I know he can do whatever he wants”. 

Aisling Long, Georgia’s Mum
“My daughter Georgia is now 6-months-old and has just started attending NCBI’s Early Learning Centre in Clondalkin. Georgia was diagnosed with microphthalmia, more commonly known as ‘small eye syndrome’ and coloboma when she was a week old. It’s a genetic condition, which means that the back of her eyes never developed in the womb.

“It came as a huge shock. We just couldn’t believe it and we were very upset. She needed an operation a week after she was born and we had regular follow up appointments. We are still unsure of what sight she has at this stage, although we know that there is no vision at all in the left eye. 

“When Georgia was diagnosed we felt lost and alone. We didn’t know where to go. I actually ran the Women’s Mini Marathon for NCBI a few years ago and again in 2014 when I was pregnant with Georgia. I pass it on my way to work every day and thought it would be nice to support one of the less well known charities. 

“So when Georgia was 6-weeks-old we rang NCBI. We didn’t know if they could do anything for such a small baby but when our local support worker called to the house she gave us such hope. NCBI have been caring and understanding and we felt like we weren’t alone. We have used the counselling service to help us come to terms with this road we never thought we’d have to go down and meeting other parents and children at the Early Learning Centre has been fantastic. They hold coffee mornings so we all have a chance to meet and chat and that support is invaluable. 

“I decided to do the ‘RunaMuck’ challenge to raise funds for NCBI and my whole family got involved. It was a great success”.  This article in accompanied by three photo. The first, on page 19, shows Robert Montgomery at play in the Early Learning Centre. The caption reads: Robert Montgomery.

The second on the left hand column of page 20 shows Tadhg Ratcliffe at play in the centre with his instructor. The caption reads:  Tadhg Ratcliffe with ELC manager Margaret Bousquet.

The third picture on the right and column of page 20 shows a group of people with baby Georgia Long, the caption reads: Aishling Long and Baby Georgia with Elaine Howley, CEO NCBI Services, and JP Corcoran, NCBI Fundraising Team.

End of page 20.

Page 21.

NCBI Fundraising — Events Around the Country




‘RunaMuck’ Challenge and Cake Sale in aid of Early Learning Centre

Thanks so much to Aisling Long and Michael Byrne who recently completed the ‘RunaMuck’ Challenge in Kildare to raise funds for NCBI’s Early Learning Centre. Aisling and Michael, whose daughter Georgia is now attending the NCBI Early Learning Centre in Clondalkin, were joined by 30 of their family and friends to run through a very cold, wet and mucky course and face obstacles such as bale jumps, net scrambles, Tarzan swings, bridges, ditches, streams, tractor tyres & tunnels. Phew!
 
To add to the wonderful amount raised, Donna Meredith, who is Aisling’s close friend and work colleague, organised a wonderfully successful cake sale in her work place. 

Altogether a fantastic €5,288 was raised for the Early Learning Centre in Clondalkin which provides vital support and services to children with sight loss up to the age of 6. Well done to you all and thanks for your support.

This story carries two pictures. The first  on the bottom left-hand of the page sows a group of people with NCBI Banner waiting to board a bus. The caption reads: Above: Aisling and Michael on their way to “Runamuck” with family and friends.

The second picture at the right hand top of page 21 shows a group of people with a large cheque. The caption reads: Above: Aisling and Michael present a cheque to Elaine Howley, CEO of NCBI Services. Left to Right: Joanna Siadul, Margaret Bousquet, Michael Byrne, Elaine Howley, Georgia Long, JP Corcoran, Aisling Long, Jake Long and David Long.

NCBI’s range of Scented Candles 

NCBI has a fabulous selection of scented candles for sale with profits going to develop our services for people with sight loss around the country. The candles are for sale in head office, on our website and through our network of 73 NCBI Retail Charity Shops. 
The price is €2 each or four for €7.50 with four different scents to choose from – Festive Nights, Relaxing Nights, Tropical Nights and Forest Nights. You will find a full list of our shop locations at 
www.ncbi.ie/ncbiretail.

 This piece carries an illustration of the NCBI scented candles.

Pages 22 and 23.
These two pages carry our usual round-up of NCBI Fundraising  activities and up-coming events.

Page header:

NCBI Fundraising.

Upcoming Fundraising Events

Pancake Fundraiser Classic & Vintage Vehicle Show
28th June
The 18th Annual Classic & Vintage Vehicle Show in aid of NCBI will be taking place in St. Columba’s College on 28th June. A super day was had at the Show in 2014 which featured vehicles from 1920s right up to 1980 and even early 90s including VW Beetles, V12 E Type coupe, 190 SL, TRs also a very nice MK1 Cortina 1600 E on the GOIVC stand. Admission is €10 per car and set up and display will be available from 9.30am. For further information please call Finbarr Roche on 01 8821917.

This piece carries a stock photo of classic cars.


Trip to Tipp Weekend of Cycling — 20th Anniversary
15th and 16th August
Online registration is just about ready for the 20th annual Trip to Tipp Weekend of Cycling. If you haven’t heard of it, this long established cycle event, run by Tipp man Billy Shanahan, has something for all levels of cyclists. The 70km 3 Counties Tour in memory of John Murphy will take place on Saturday 15th while rides of 70km, 100km and 140km will be available on Sunday 16th. A hugely popular 20km Family Fun Cycle also takes place on the Sunday morning. Visit our website for details on start times, routes, and to book your place.
This piece carries an illustration of the ‘Trip to Tipp’ logo.

Granard Cup Final in Woodbrook Golf Club
24th August
Established in 1933, The Granard Cup is one of the oldest running ladies golf competitions in Ireland. In order to participate, all you need to do is hold a qualifying competition in your club. The entrance fee to qualify is only €10 per pair and the proceeds go directly to NCBI. The winners will then qualify to play in this year’s All Ireland Granard Cup Final, which will be held in Woodbrook Golf Club, Wicklow on Monday August 24th. In 2014, over 100 clubs participated. If you would like to get involved or receive one of our information packs, contact Roisin Walsh 01 8821984.
This piece carried a photo of last years winners. The caption reads: Above: Left to right – Chris White, CEO of NCBI with Marie Gilbride, Ladies Captain of Elm Park Golf Club and Noranne Callaghy & Miriam Malone, Winners from Edenderry Golf Club.

NCBI Holmpatrick Cup
11th to 13th October
For only €7.50 per person you could compete for a chance to play in the final of the Holmpatrick Cup at the home of golf, St. Andrews from 11th to 13th October. Club qualifiers are currently taking place. Contact Allison Harvey on 01 8821939 for more details.
This piece carries a split collage photo of  last year‘s winners, the left hand side shows the winners  holding the Holmpatrick Cup on the famous bridge at St Andrews. The right-hand section shows the winners holding a pennant in the clubhouse. The caption reads: Above: NCBI HolmPatrick Cup Winners 2014. Left to right – Ken Hovenden & Victor Smyth representing Castlecomer Golf Club, Kilkenny.

Majorca Cycle Challenge With Sean Kelly
11th to 18th October
Cycle for NCBI in Majorca this October and help raise vital funds for people with sight loss. The event will be a seven day trip with a variety of cycle rides to choose from to suit all levels. What’s more, everyone will get a chance to cycle with the legendary Sean Kelly. For more information, or if you would like to volunteer to pilot a vision impaired cyclist on a tandem bike. 
Please contact JP on 01 8821970.
This piece carries the Majorca Cycle logo.

Airtricity Dublin City Marathon for NCBI
26th October
Support NCBI by taking part in what will be the 35th annual Dublin City Marathon. The ultimate endurance challenge, you will run through the historic Georgian streets of Ireland’s capital city alongside 14,000 other participants from Ireland and around the world. As always, all NCBI runners will receive a fundraising pack and support. For more information, please call us today on 01 8307033 or email marathon at ncbi.ie.

Darts night fundraiser in Athlone IT
NCBI would also like to kindly thank Kenneth Poland, a 4th year tourism and hospitality management student at Athlone IT, who recently organised a darts night fundraiser in aid of NCBI which raised an amazing €2,000. Kenneth’s brother Sean is from Tullamore and avails of the services of NCBI. Many thanks to the all students and staff who got involved in this tournament and helped make it the wonderful success that it was.

This piece carries a picture of the cheque presentation it shows a large group of people. The caption reads: Above: Kenneth and Athlone IT students presenting a cheque for €2000 to Aileen Ahern, NCBI Community Resource Worker for the Offaly and Westmeath area.



Skydive - All Year!
Face your fears and do a 10,000 ft. parachute jump to raise funds for NCBI. This event takes place all year round.
This piece carries a picture of people exiting a plane to free fall.

Dublin Bus Ticket Refunds
Travelling on Dublin Bus today? Please consider donating your bus refund ticket and see all donations go to NCBI – Working for People with Sight Loss. Please send your tickets to us at “Bus Ticket Appeal, NCBI Head Office, Whitworth Road, Drumcondra, Dublin 9.”
This piece carried a picture of head of a Dublin Bus bus stop.

End of page 23.


Page 24.

Page header:
NCBI Fundraising.

“Dining in the Dark” Fundraiser At Navan NCBI
On Saturday 16th May, NCBI’s charity shop in Navan held a Dining in the Dark fundraiser at the Martry Restaurant in Navan, Co. Meath. 

The night aimed to raise awareness of what it means to live with sight loss, as well as to raise vital funds for NCBI’s services. Shop manager Geraldine Lee was delighted with the interest in the event.

 “Our premises in Navan includes both the charity shop and our services office so it’s great to see where the money raised through the shop goes, directly, and meet people who use NCBI’s services. I would like to thank all those who contributed in any way, particularly Luke from ‘Making Your Wine” in Kells, Helen from “No Fuss Foto” and all the volunteers involved on the night.”

This story carries three photos. The first on the left-hand column shows a woman holding two self-labelled bottles of wine. The caption reads: Left: Geraldine Lee with the ‘Dining in the Dark” vintage ready for guests.

The remaining two photos show guests entering the dining-room blindfolded and seated at a round table eating blindfolded. The combined caption reads: Above: Blindfolded diners being led to their tables at the “Dining in the Dark” experience. Below:  Knights of the Round Table “Dining in the Dark” .

Can You Help Us? Consider Making a Regular Donation to NCBI!

 Did you know that NCBI must raise €4 out of every €10 we spend on services? By making a regular donation for as little as €7 a month, you can help us make a profound difference to the lives of people who are blind or vision impaired. Your support would be greatly valued and appreciated to ensure that NCBI can continue offering these essential services.  Please consider filling in the form enclosed in this edition of NCBI News or log onto www.ncbi.ie/make-regular-donation.


Overseas Events
Challenge yourself to make a difference! NCBI offers a broad range of inspiring challenges in a host of destinations around the world. Whether it’s climbing Kilimanjaro, walking the Great Wall of China, or trekking to the Base Camp of Mount Everest, we have a challenge that suits you.
Visit www.earths-edge.com, or email fundraising at ncbi.ie or phone 01 8307033.

End of page 24.

 END.
